Sunny King and Scott Nadal invented Peercoin in August 2012 as the first Proof of Stake secured cryptocurrency.
Peercoin’s blockchain security rests entirely on PoS.  PoW mining is used only to generate a fair initial coin distribution.
ICOs create central points of failure for Proof of Stake systems. Peercoin has been fairly distributing coins since 2012.
Peercoin is first to implement a dust limit, fee burning, fixed fees, a coherent inflation rate, oh yah and Proof of Stake.
While Peercoin’s inflation due to PoS is only ~1%, a continuous minter currently gets around 5%/year rewards.
The mint reward rate is related to a) how many coins are participating, and b) the mint difficulty. Time is the difference.
Time is the expended commodity in PoS networks. Afterall, isn’t time the only thing we truly have to offer?
Peercoin strives to survive as an immutable record. The moon is just a side trip.
Opportunity cost is real. Peercoin atrophies its attackers with its mere existence.
PoS inflation can be seen as a nominal ‘in name only’ interest because anyone can participate.
The Peercoin DAO is more than the blockchain, it is all of us at the moment of our most caring.
The PoS reward is in two parts, a 3%/year coinage part, and ~1.25 PPC/block static part.
Peercoin inflation is around half PoS and half PoW. Distribution is hybrid, while security is 100% PoS.
PoW block rewards go down when PoW difficulty goes up in Peercoin. 16x difficulty cuts the reward in half.
Self-governance is a core attribute of PoS. Combined with fair distribution, Peercoin sets the bar for justice in economics.
Deflationary cryptocurrencies are doomed to fail once their block rewards run out. Sustainability is multi-faceted.
While the Foundation allows for accountability and a way to centralize efforts, Peercoin thrives off volunteers.
PeerAssets is a tokenization protocol designed to be lightweight to fit on an efficient chain like Peercoin.
With a ~1GB blockchain, Peercoin’s efficiency allows for a true peer-to-peer protocol. Full nodes for all.
Peercoin has a fee of 0.01 PPC/KB, no calculators required.
Backbone settlement layers with long-term distributed consensus are proven over time.
Time: it’s not just for clocks anymore. #Peercoin
Ever hear the phrase ‘time is money’? Ok, now multiple them together. #coinage
Distributed consensus allows for collections of individuals to find common ground, and to walk away.
Protocol changes occur when innovation is implemented. Design starts with discussion of ideas and moves to an RFC.
Talk is cheap, so come do a lot of it with us. Adaptability to new ideas is key.
It’s not easy being green.
Great care has been put into keeping decentralized projects decentralized. New coins on the block don’t get that.
Fees are burned in Peercoin rather than recycled, keeping the blockchain tight and efficient.
You will be outlasted by the sunrise and by Peercoin.
Only three things in life are certain: death, taxes, and the next Peercoin block.
Outputs start to have a chance to mint at 30 days old and reach maximum mint probability at 90 days.
Each output to a transaction is a lottery ticket to mint. The timestamp of the formed block chooses the winners.
The standard client will split outputs in two that mint earlier than 90 days.
What is the ideal output size to maximize mint rewards? It depends on the PoS difficulty, but around 20-200 PPC is fine.
Many Peercoin point upgrades are hard forks, allowing the protocol to truly improve and flaunting the strength of our consensus.
Democratically self-governed, Peercoin does not fear those who have not put in the time.
Peercoin is the Eye of Agamotto.
Development on Peercoin has been two-fold: maintaining compatibility with Bitcoin code, and building our own unique mechanisms.
Our full nodes are streamlined enough to fit on a Raspberry Pi, a small computer, or an Internet of Things device.
Settings>Options>Wallet>’Enable coin control features’.  Thank me later.
The ‘Export’ button in the ‘Transactions’ tab outputs a .csv of your activities. Peercoin Analytics aims help interpret it.
The testnet is a mirror network with faster protocol parameters that we release updates on first to troubleshoot them.
While testnet coins are not worth money, being a reliable minter on the testnet helps the whole ecosystem. 
When minting, you hash the block and its timestamp (1 hash/utxo/second), and compare to the difficulty per unit coinage.
Difficulty throttled PoW rewards prevent the snowballing of energy consumption due to mining.
Outputs have a minimum size called the ‘dust limit’ which prevents spam. It is a widely used Peercoin invention.
Rather than relying on a fee market and a blocksize limit, Peercoin uses a fixed fee rate to give value to data.
You can provably burn Peercoin simply by including a higher fee than is required. Fees are burnt.
Distributed consensus is all about strangers on the internet agreeing. It’s nothing short of a miracle.
OP_RETURN is a specially marked output that allows for arbitrary data inclusion in a block, up to a limit, paying required fees.
The economics of Peercoin are uniquely defined around the act of participation in the consensus process.
Around 7000 out of 12000 coins are PoS, intellectual progeny of Peercoin. Even high cap coins like ETH wanna be us.
If Peercoin consumed as much energy as Bitcoin, the price would have to be $400k/ppc with a marketcap of $11 trillion.
The PoW component of Peercoin is made to taper off as the efficiency of computer hardware gets better.
